---
author: robmyers
comments: false
date: 2003-10-11 08:17:55+00:00
layout: post
slug: reform
title: Reform
wordpress_id: 47
categories:
- Aesthetics
---

The reform movements of the late 19th and early 20th centuries  
reacted to Industrialisation in two ways. Traditionalist  
movements such as Arts & Crafts in Britain sought to reject the  
dehumanising lifestyle and low-quality products of industrialisation  
and to return to the values and styles of an idealised pre-industrial  
past. Progressive movements such as Bauhaus in Germany sought to  
embrace the efficient lifestyle and affordable products of  
industrialisation in and to move on to an idealised social future. These social  
agenda went hand-in-hand with each movements' aesthetic agenda, each  
seeking to improve material and social forms by their intervention.  
  
Post-Industrialism has led to the rise of contemporary reform  
movements, similarly concerned with rejecting or embracing the  
aesthetic and mode of production of the day.  
  
Anti-globalisation seeks to return the first world to a romanticised  
pre-branding past with an aesthetic of genuine, unmediated  
first-order experience and social exchange and space whilst bringing  
the third world out of poverty. But as offshoring gains pace the  
anti-globalisation dream of removing the intrusion of branding into  
everyday life and levelling living conditions around the world may be  
realised only ironically.   
  
The Open Source movement seeks to alter the ownership and rewards of  
technological production and distribution, with anything beyond a  
rough and ready functionalist aesthetic undetermined outside of  
software development. Open Source is a flexible model that can be  
applied to areas outside of software engineering and the media. Anything  
that can be designed or distributed can be open sourced, with  
competition based on quality of manufacture, delivery or support.  
  
Open Source, then is a model that can and must be applied to the  
production of social and aesthetic forms as well as technological  
ones. Open Source is a redistribution of capital (or at least value), but  
distributed and voluntary rather than centralised and  
imposed. How this will look has yet to be decided. Hopefully without a  
centralised beaurocracy to impose a "Socialist Realism" or yBA-style kitsch  
aesthetic the results will be vital.

  


