---
author: robmyers
comments: false
date: 2004-04-25 09:17:12+00:00
layout: post
slug: on-language
title: On “Language”
wordpress_id: 133
categories:
- Aesthetics
---

(From a discussion on Aesthetics-L)  
  
The existence of a penumbra does not cause light and dark to wink out  
of existence. Ordinary language philosophy's obsession with edge-cases  
fills lonely evenings but ignores the break-out strategy of  
*generating* language.  
  
I don't know what the opposite of bootstrapping is (self-obviating?),  
but linguistic arguments regarding the limit of language have an  
obvious and fatal flaw, as do attempts to communicate on the limits of  
communication...  
  
Most people don't care how language works. It usually doesn't fail to  
in some way. History and fiction are full of examples of the failure of  
language and communication both tragic and amusing, the limit of  
language is not a stunning philosophical insight. What is stunning  
about philosophy is the failure to get with the program and accept  
fuzziness, poetry, or any other continuous, combinatorial idea of  
language rather than wallow in late Modernism's dreary fascination with  
pathology and bogus exactitude. Language is not discrete, and if it was  
you'd hit Godel anyway. There is a signal in the noise. Get used to the  
static, or ironise it into signal like Trip Hop did.  
  
Language (and art) is (potentially) infinite. It is possible to  
characterise and show the limits of infinite series (or whatever, you  
can work with them anyway), but given that human experience and lives  
are finite, this is unlikely to be a serious problem. At worst we have  
to accept that meaning is fuzzy and lazily evaluated. Which is  
potential, not limit.  
  
If there are no ideas, no concepts, no language and no communication,  
or they are broken, or we are deluded in our understanding of how they  
work or that they work, something very strange is going on. That would  
be an interesting focus for philosophy, and since it involves  
appearance(s), aesthetics.  
  
Linguistic enamourment is masturbatory, and linguistic reflexiveness is  
historically deconstructable...

  


